Let's examine the application cache using ARSnova as an example.
On the left, in Google Chrome Browser, we have loaded the ARSnova app.
On the right, we have the Chrome Developer Tools.
First, let me show how to inform the browser about the manifest file.
You define the manifest file as attribute of the  element:
Now, when we switch to the "Resources" tab, we'll see all storage options of an HTML 5 app.
1. Web SQL (I mentioned in the first video that not all browsers support this SQL Light database). Web SQL is not used by ARSnova
2. IndexedDB, used by Firefox and Internet Explorer (not used here, either)
ARSnova doesn't use any of these client-side SQL or NoSQL databases.
3. Local Storage: ARSnova does use Local Storage and there are some entries in it.
3. Session Storage: There are no entries.
4. Cookies: ARSnova uses conventional cookies
(At the moment, there are no entries)
(KQC  reloads the app to generate a cookie ...) Ah, now there is one.
In this cookie, the authentication data is stored.
5. Application Cache.
Here the entries in the Application Cache.
The Manifest File is located in the master folder and is called arsnova.manifest.
The list shows all entries in the Application Cache.
When the app is initially loaded, all resources are loaded. On the second call, all these resources are available locally and don't need to be reloaded over the internet.
With Sencha Cmd it's easy define which files will go into the manifest file.
Let's have a quick look.
The resources that should go into the app cache are defined in the file "app.json".
This file is important for you as a developer, so have a closer look at it.
In this file, you define the name space of the app.
You can also define if the app is a Single Page App (SPA) and many more things.
You can define, which Javascript files you want concatenated and minified.
You can define the CSS files that are to be concatenated and minified.
And finally you can define the resources that should go into the cache manifest file:
In this case: The index.html, the favicon icon, JavaScript files, external (third party) JavaScript files and other resources like css-files, images etc.